Now again in this video we're gonna be setting up our first virtual camera using synth machine using
it to follow the player as he runs around in the world.
So let's jump in to get started.
If you haven't done so already you'll need to add the snow machine package.
We're gonna do that by heading out to window finding the package manager in the package many gems going
to search straight up for synonym machine.
There it is click install that might take a moment while it's installing on a talk a little bit about
what we're up to.
So since a machine and timeline synth machine is a powerful package that lets us manage multiple cameras
in our scene.
We're also going to be using timeline in the next couple of videos.
Timeline is an animation system that lets us time certain things or certain events while certain objects
to happen at certain times.
For example changing from one camera to another camera which is what will link into sinner machine.
So how does senior machine manage our cameras.
Well we have the main camera.
This is what we see our game through.
And then we apply to that or we add to that sorry a sinner machine brain module and this brain is going
to manage our virtual cameras we can have as many virtual cameras as we want.
Pointing in different directions having different rules some cameras might point towards an enemy some
cameras might fly through the air some cameras might have animation some cameras might be the follow
camera that we have following the player.
And the sooner machine brain is going to use the logic that we've told it to manage.
Which of these virtual cameras at any one point in time is being shown through the main camera.
And we will start by setting up our follow camera because that's a nice easy place for us to start understanding
these concepts.
So make sure this is all said and done looks like it is being installed.
Yep.
What we do need to do first of all is find our camera our follow camera and deleting it.
If we try to play the game now there will be no camera no problem.
So within core I'm going to right click Create a camera the bottom option their account is going to
fine with that game object is looks like it's at our c0 0 0 it's going to move it over generally near
my plan.
Just because I like to have these things basically in the same part of the world now that we have our
main camera back again just make sure those tagged as main camera.
So we've got some parts in our code that are requiring a main camera so we need to have that tagged
as main camera.
Now I'm going to go to my menu of the top Senate machine and create a virtual camera.
There's a whole bunch of different cameras and you know I've given you a link to the unity documents
force in a machine.
They are really good if it's in a machine so you can read up on that at any time.
But for now we're creating a virtual camera.
I'm going to rename that virtual camera follow camera because it is a camera that follows the player
and drag it just such at the same level in the hierarchy as my main camera but just underneath it so
I can keep it within my core game object here.
So the follow camera if we double click on that whereas that at the moment it's also way down in the
middle of the world.
Going gonna pull that over somewhere near my player again.
You can see it's orange in its outline here.
Whereas if I click on the main camera it is white.
Let's click back on the virtual camera and in here we have an option of what to follow and what to look
at.
We are going to ask you to follow the player so click on our selector find player.
There we go.
We can also do a look at a look at.
We'll stay in one point and just pivot around so sort of pivot around as something moves whereas the
flow is going to run along and flow with it which is exactly what we want.
We're gonna change the body to from transponder to framing transpose us or not transponder framing transpose.
What that does it is now going to try to frame our player or our point of interest the thing we're following.
If you click on your game tab you can see I'm just gonna move these side by side so we can see them
at the same time.
You can see the camera is now pointing at the player very excellent.
Unfortunately it's pointing at the player in a weird way it's way down in the ground.
Now one of the quirks of this if I go to grab it and move it around you can see that it's not actually
doing anything.
What I need to do is come into my body and change from framing trained Bowser to do nothing.
Now that's going to allow me to move around my camera and get it where I want it to be.
If you remember our camera before was facing up into the town so I'm going to orient it that way just
moving it around hitting a point it roughly towards the player move it up in the air a little bit move
it back a little bit and rotate it down towards the player so it's going to frame the player right in
the middle.
So when I switch it back to framing transpose.
Which means it's going to try to frame the player in the frame.
You can see that the player is in the frame.
I'm gonna give myself a little bit of width just play around with this and see how it looks at this
early stage okay.
It can run and it's following we can talk about all the controls in just a moment but let's go.
We now have a camera following the player.
Now I think the camera's a little bit too close to the player.
There is a value of camera distance if I increase that that is how we pull the camera away from the
player which is way better than getting into the scene and monkeying around with the camera itself.
So let's talk about some of the other things that we can doing here now that we've got a fellow camera
you can see that there's this red outline and there's a kind of bluey outline in there.
This is referring to a couple of things one is the dead zone and one is the soft zone so you can see
dead zone width as an option.
If you increase that it'll increase these first two lines and then height it'll increase these next
two lines till we get to the point we have this gap in the middle.
Now you can see if you run around within this gap the the yellow dot being the position the camera's
pointing at.
It's not really moving very much it's not going to move until we get to the edge of that dead zone.
Then the camera will move to keep up with our target.
So if you have a huge dead zone then the play is going to be out to move a whole bunch in the world
without without the camera moving a lot.
If you have a very small dead zone Sara is moving this stuff so it's very small dead zone.
Then the camera's going to try to follow the player pretty closely.
You can see the crosshairs aren't exactly on the yellow dog.
That's because we have a little bit of damping so the more damping you have the more the player's gonna
be able to get all the way over to the edge before the camera slowly tries to catch up with it.
So again if you want to have it the player can get marching off the screen and your camera is fairly
loosely following the player.
Then the X and the Y damping can do that for you.
Like time on a little bit closer here we can also increase the look ahead time which will try to move
the camera quickly in the direction we're going.
So if I click up to the top right the camera move fairly aggressively to the top right.
What we do to try to let me see more of the game as I'm heading in that direction so we'll play around
with these moves that a bit more.
The smoothing as well.
You can see it takes longer if you're higher have a higher smoothing but smoothing all the way down.
So the cameras looking ahead much further which is kind of handy for us.
It's good if you're running in a particular direction and you want to see more of that direction.
OK.
And then these soft zone is basically saying we're not allowed to go there at all so you can see if
I pull this soft swaps sometimes when you click on something else it change it click on the camera follow
a camera to get that back flip camera and just be careful when you're clicking around because you can
grab these lines and move these lines around while you're in this view or you think you're trying to
move the player.
You can also accidentally be moving your lines and changing skewing your camera.
I honestly don't know what I've done just here but I've made some weird changes.
Now we click out of play mode and have a look at things it has kept these settings and that is because
we have a save during play which is very excellent you can choose your camera and it stays with the
same settings that you've just tuned it at my weeds things that I've got to hear now because I accidentally
grabbed something I think is because my put my look ahead time down again it's because I've changed
my screen wired screens it if you want to have the whole thing skew a little bit down Askew a little
bit.
So this is way more powerful than the camera that we've had.
There was a question we had in our forum why don't we just use the super machine follow a camera.
Well we wanted to get up and running and not to have too much time fiddling with the camera.
But I think when our ready to do some fiddling with the camera which is super cool.
Speaking of fiddling with the camera.
This is the challenge I've got for you is to tune you follow a camera so that you're happy with it at
a sooner machine brain of course add the virtual camera and to tune the feel of your follow camera until
you're happy with it when you are happy with it then jump over into the next lecture and a quick follow
up just in case you wondering these are the settings that I have for my camera at the moment.
OK see you again soon.